Proposing a new branching and merging model (#695)
wasp-lang/wasp: waspc/README.md

- [ ] Join [Discord](https://discord.gg/rzdnErX) and say hi :)!
- [ ] Pick an issue [labeled with "good first issue"](https://github.com/wasp-lang/wasp/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) and let us know you would like to work on it - ideally immediatelly propose a plan of action and ask questions.
      If you can't find a suitable issue for you, reach out to us on Discord and we can try to find smth for you together.

> - [ ] Make a PR targeting `main` and have it accepted! Check [Typical workflow](#typical-development-workflow) for guidance, and consult [Codebase overview](#codebase-overview) for more details on how Wasp compiler works internally.

Reviewer: Maybe they want to target `release` if they are fixing docs, or a bug?
But ok, maybe it is best they target `main` and we can correct them if needed.

Author: Yeah, I was trying to just be safe with the most common case as the suggestion, hoping we can correct if needed or they look at the details below. I can add a link to the new section here as well if that may help?

Reviewer: I think this is fine!

Author: Just added that link 👍🏻

## Commit message conventions
We use [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0-beta.2/) convention when creating commits.

## Branching and merging strategy
This repo contains both the source code that makes up a Wasp release (under `waspc`), as well as our website containing documentation and blog posts (under `web`). In order to facilitate the development of Wasp code while still allowing for website updates or hotfixes of the current release, we have decided on the following minimal branching strategy.

All Wasp development should be done on feature branches. They form the basis of PRs that will target one of the two following branches:

- `main`: this branch contains all the actively developed new features and corresponding documentation updates. Some of these things may not yet be released, but anything merged into `main` should be in a release-ready state.
  - This is the default branch to target for any Wasp feature branches.

> - `release`: this branch contains the source code of current/latest Wasp release, as well as the documentation and blog posts currently visible on the website.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `release`: this branch contains the source code of current/latest Wasp release, as well as the documentation and blog posts currently published and therefore visible on the website.
```

>   - When we do a full release, we first backmerge `release` into `main` to pick up any diverging changes (see below). We then merge `main` into `release` to get all the new changes. We can now create a new Wasp release as well as deploy the website from the `release` branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - When doing a full release, which means making a new release based on what we have currently on `main`, we do the following:
    1. Update `release` branch by merging `main` into it. There might be conflicts, since `release` might have hotfixes and blog posts that `main` doesn't have, but they shouldn't be too hard to fix. Once `release` is updated, you can create a new waspc release from it, as well as deploy the website from it.
    2. To keep `main` up to date with any changes in `release`, you should now also update `main` to reflect the new `release`. There will be no conflicts since we already resolved all of them in the previous step.
```

Reviewer: I tried to simplify language a bit, since I found it a bit too technical for me!

And I believe you can then remove the explanation at the bottom, under NOTE.

Author: Updated with your suggestion (with one tweak to clarify the how: "2. Update `release` branch to this new `main` by merging `main` into it.") Removed NOTE and references to backmerge. Thanks! 👍🏻

>   - How can `release` diverge from `main`?
>     - If you have a website-only update (like a blog post or documentation fix) that does _not_ depend on a Wasp release, you may open your PR against `release`.
>     - If there is a hotfix required for the _current_ Wasp release, you may open your PR against `release`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How do I know where I want to target my PR, to `release` or `main`?
  - If you have a change that you want to publish right now or very soon, certainly earlier than waiting till `main` is ready for publishing, then you want to target `release`. This could be website content update, new blog post, documentation (hot)fix, compiler hotfix that we need to release quickly via a new patch version, ... .
  - If you have a change that is not urgent and can wait until the next "normal" Wasp release is published, then target `main`. These are new features, refactorings, docs accompanying new features, ... .
  - TLDR;
    - `release` is for changes to the already published stuff (the present).
    - `main` is for changes to the to-be-published stuff (the future).
```

### Typical Release Process
- Update ChangeLog.md with release notes and open an PR for feedback.
- After approval, squash and merge PR for ChangeLog.md into `main`.

> - Update your local repository state to have all remote changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Update your local repository state to have all remote changes (`git fetch`).
```

Author: Updated, thanks!

- Backmerge `release` into `main`.

> - Merge `main` into `release`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Update `main` to contain changes from `release` by running `git merge release` while on the `main` branch. Resolve any conflicts.
- Fast-forward `release` to this new, updated `main` by running `git merge main` while on the `release` branch.
```

Author: Updated!

> - Update your local repository state to have all remote changes.
> - Backmerge `release` into `main`.
> - Merge `main` into `release`.
> - Make sure you are on `release` and then run `./new-release 0.x.y.z`.
>   - This will automatically create a new commit for updating the version in waspc.cabal, tag it, and push it all.
> - Wait for CI to finish & succeed for the new tag.
>   - This will automatically create a new draft release.
> - Find new draft release here: https://github.com/wasp-lang/wasp/releases and edit it with your release notes.
> - Publish the draft release when ready.
> - Publish new [docs](/web#deployment) from the `release` branch as well.
> - Announce new release in Discord.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Make sure your `release` and `main` branches are up to date with the remote (run `git fetch`).
- Update `release` with the `main` by checking out `release` and running `git merge main`. Resolve any conflicts.
- Make sure you are on `release` and then run `./new-release 0.x.y.z`.
  - This will automatically create a new commit for updating the version in waspc.cabal, tag it, and push it all.
- Wait for CI to finish & succeed for the new tag.
  - This will automatically create a new draft release.
- Find new draft release here: https://github.com/wasp-lang/wasp/releases and edit it with your release notes.
- Publish the draft release when ready.
- Publish new [docs](/web#deployment) from the `release` branch as well.
- Announce new release in Discord.
- Update `main` with the `release` by checking out `main` and running `git merge --squash release`. There should be no conflicts.
```

Maybe we should not do `--squash` in that last merge, I am not sure. `--squash` will ensure history is kept linear in `main`. But it will squash the work done on `release`. I am not sure if this is better or it is better to have merges in two directions.
